---
title:  "Progress and bad paintings"
date:   2021-01-06 18:11:11 +0100
author: "Frank Hampus Weslien"
tags: 
  - ramblings
  - painting
---

In my second year of university I decided I needed a new hobby.
I'd tried writing but the times I could sit down and get into the flow were few and far in between.
You probably know the feeling. 
Your past self (always that damn past you) has promised you'll do something but you get to it you find out your not that stoked (and he can go screw himself).
But you sit down, maybe in front of your computer but better would be if you'd just grab a piece of paper.
Where did I put the paper again?
Anyway, if your lucky, you get on with it.
But I wasn't getting lucky often so on whim I started painting.
No particular goal in mind but I thought to myself: "man, wouldn't it be cool to do portraits?"
And you know what? I liked.

<!--more-->

The number of times I've been bored out of my mind painting are more then I can count - but so are the times when I've forgotten what time it is.
And little by little you start to get better.
Not much.
The progress day to day, week to week is so small...
yet the progress from month to month, year to year is impressive.

Another thing is just how warped sense I had, and what people around me have, of what progress looks like.
The absolute majority of all painting/drawing/sketching I do is remarkably unimpressive which is why I never post it.
There is a lot of throw away garbage you have to make before you ever get any better, and most surprisingly - the better you get the more throwaway paintings you need.
Just as a runner need to run more miles, and the lifter put on another plate.
As soon as what you do becomes easy you stop progressing.

To combat this collective narcissism that I'll do something I've never done before - post one of my practice paintings. 

<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1e6S-O7Xua-cZkqn1p9bPTEE_9dSCV3ZG/preview" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

I don't know how much time I spent on it, lets say 40 minutes, a quick painting that waw meant to be thrown away.
And even though it looks really bad I've found them invaluable to getting better.