---
title:  "Momentum"
date:   2021-02-13 11:11:11 +0100
author: "Frank Hampus Weslien"
tags: 
  - ramblings
---

When you do something that takes a lot of effort one has to have momentum.
Because when you loose it, it is really hard to get the ball back rolling again.
I've numerous dead git repos where I tinkered but never got a working prototype loosing all interest when progress grinded to a halt.
And this is true for more things then just code.
I've tried writing short stories and posed the exact same problem: I just couldn't finnish them before getting bored.

<!--more-->

That is why you have to have momentum.
It is only protection against boredom.
A few years ago I started painting and since then I've managed to get much better then I ever thought I would.
Painting portraits was a long time goal of mine and it happened way sooner then I ever thought.
And what made it happen was that I had a rigid schedule, and wasn't discouraged when I made [bad paintings](./2021-01-06-Progress.html).
Without which I'd never seen this level of progress.

But currently I've been struggling - not with the painting,  that is trucking along - but a web app I've been hacking on.
Three months ago I decided that writing an app that makes it easier for my dad to manage the sport equipments for the local handball club would be a good idea.
Initially I heavily underestimated the amount of work that I needed do. 
The goal was to have a (shitty) working prototype by the start of february, which I of course blew right past.
At this point I'd be happy if I can launch it sometime in march.
And I've really felt down when problems that felt like I should be able to bang out in a day or two takes a week in reality.
I have been loosing the momentum fast.
Thinking if this really was such a good idea after all.
So I decided to write this post and play a trick on myself by making a promise: I'm only allowed to stop working on it after my first release.
If it sucks. If I don't want to work on it any more that is fine. I'd never have to touch it again.

The trick is that the momentum you pick up from releasing something will pull you with it.
And it won't let go.




